hello listeners welcome back to Luke's
English podcast how are you doing today
I hope you're doing fine so this is a
story episode which means that as usual
I'm going to tell you a story and then
use it to help you learn English what is
going to happen is that first I'll read
the story to you you can just try to
follow it and understand everything and
then afterwards I'll summarize it just
to make sure you've understood the
overall meaning of what happened in the
story and then I'll go through the story
again line by line and I will explain
bits of vocabulary as we go there's a
lot of English to learn from this story
lots of useful phrases regularly used
expressions and vocabulary uh which you
could apply to a variety of different
contexts um this is the sort of natural
upto-date English that is used today
presented in a story and then explained
by me afterwards um the story is short
it's about uh 1,500 words long something
like that which is short but this
episode might be long because I'm not
just telling you the story um I'm also
going to analyze and teach you a lot of
the language the story itself will
probably take about 15 to 20 minutes and
then the rest of the episode will be me
teaching you English so short story but
long episode if you want to practice
your pronunciation with this you could
repeat each line after me you might need
to use the pause button uh after each
line uh or perhaps read the story out
loud at the same time as me that's
shadowing uh you could try doing this
both with and without the story text in
front of you uh if the story is a bit
long for you to Shadow the entire thing
you could just um maybe just focus on
one part of it also you could record
yourself uh reading the story and then
compare your recording to mine and
identify differences identify
maybe little bits of pronunciation that
were problematic for you certain sounds
which were tricky which you could then
focus on or you could just simply enjoy
listening to the story without feeling
the need to do anything else it's up to
you um as usual there is a PDF for this
which contains the full story text and
all my um notes my vocab notes and stuff
like that you can download that uh from
my website you'll find a link in the
description
right so let's get started shall we yes
um so first of all a general question a
general question so think about this as
you listen to the story what kind of
story is this how would you categorize
this story in terms of its style or its
genre so what what kind of story is this
and one other thing by the way the main
character in this story is Spanish uh he
is a learner of English from Spain uh so
the main main character is Spanish and
when he speaks in rather than me
attempting to do some kind of Spanish
accent instead I'll just be reading
those lines in my normal English accent
I think that would probably be best
rather than me attempting to do some
horrendous Spanish accent which wouldn't
really be appropriate anyway so he he's
just going to speak in my voice maybe he
maybe he listens to Luke's English
podcast a lot and as a result um he's
just speaks English with uh with without
a particular Spanish accent anyway let's
get started so what kind of story is
this here we go this is the
abduction uh also known as the bizarre
Abduction of Jose Martinez here we go
Jose Martinez was an ordinary man living
in a quaint little town on the outskirts
of London in
England originally from Spain Jose had
moved to the UK to improve his English
by a himself in the language and
culture he managed to find work as a
mechanic fixing up old cars in a small
garage his life was relatively simple
and uneventful except for one major
hurdle his struggle to understand all
the different British accents and
dialects which he encountered on a daily
basis and the food of
course and the
weather and how expensive everything was
and the drafty
windows and the tiny
kitchens and the carpet
everywhere and the fact that there were
always two Taps on every bathroom sink
so when he washed he either froze his
hands in ice cold water or completely
boiled
them there was also the Visa issue
because of brexit but except for all
that it was
wonderful one crisp autumn evening Jose
was closing up his garage the Sun
setting in a blaze of orange and red
behind the dark gray
clouds as he was locking the door he
noticed a strange light in the
sky at first he thought it was a plane
then perhaps a drone or maybe a ball
from that weird game called Cricket that
people play in
England but no it was something even
stranger than
that it moved erratically zigzagging
across the sky like a drunk MOS
osito curiosity got the better of Jose
and he stood there staring at the
phenomenon his mouth hanging
open suddenly the light grew brighter
and zoomed towards Jose at an incredible
speed before he could react Jose was
enveloped in a blinding white light and
felt his feet leave the
ground oh bloody hell he said because
that's what English people say in this
kind of situation and you know he was
trying to blend
in when he woke up Jose found himself in
a sterile metallic room he was lying on
a cold hard surface like the world's
worst spa
treatment at first he thought he was
still in England he was cold and a bit
uncomfortable like
normal then Panic set in when he noticed
there was was no carpet on the floor and
he realized he'd actually been abducted
by
aliens he tried to sit up but his body
felt heavy and his head was spinning
like he'd just come back from a trip to
the pub with his English mate
Barry a door slid open and two figures
entered the
room they were humanoid but taller with
elongated Limbs and large Armen shaped
eyes imagine a yoga instructor had had a
baby with some kind of insect that's
what they looked like standard alien
stuff
really their skin had a bluish color and
they moved with an eerie Grace like
ballet dancers who took their job just a
little bit too
seriously one of them approached Jose
and placed a device on his forehead
Jose felt a slight tingling sensation
and suddenly the room seemed to spin
faster oh bloody hell he said
again do not be afraid Jose Martinez a
voice echoed in his mind in English the
alien's lips didn't move we mean you no
harm who who who are you and why do you
even have lips if you can do this minde
speaking thing that you're doing to me
currently at this very moment right
now said Jose quite impressed with his
own English but also wondering if this
was all a big trick and he was actually
on a terrible TV prank show or
something he glanced around the room to
see if there were any cameras but there
weren't
any all he could see was just weird
alien technology all around him oh Jose
what have you got yourself into this
time he muttered to himself
we are the Sara the alien replied
telepathically we've been observing your
species for
centuries we have chosen you Jose
Martinez for an experiment that will
benefit both our
kinds Jose's fear slowly began to
subside replaced by curiosity as well as
a bit of
annoyance look if if it's about my Visa
I'm in the process of renewing it
honestly I just need to but the salara
didn't let him finish we have developed
a technology that allows us to share
knowledge through direct neural transfer
it
explained you will be the first human to
receive this gift we will give you all
our knowledge including everything we
have learned and observed about the
English people and their
language in return we ask that you share
your Spanish culture and language with
us um I'm from Barcelona said Jose and
well haven't you heard of duo lingo or
podcasts but that Zara
continued please we ask you to share
your language and culture with us and
that you let us examine
you huh said Jose but before he could go
any further the alien activated the
device on his forehead a flood of
information surged into Jose's mind
grammar rules vocabulary idioms and all
the nuances of the English language
every accent even the Liverpool
one it was overwhelming like that time
Barry tried to explain the rules of
snooker after they' drunk seven pints of
Guinness plus Jose hadn't actually given
his consent for any of this which seemed
to bit wrong like some kind of space
crime or
something however as the minutes passed
Jose felt his understanding of English
deepen to an extraordinary level he
could now speak read understand and
write English with impeccable precision
and could probably give grammar lessons
to Shakespeare if he wasn't dead
Shakespeare I mean Jose was still alive
of
course in fact at this moment he felt
more alive than ever
before days turned into weeks as Jose
adapted to his new environment the
discomfort of his initial adduction
wearing off with
time the zelara were fascinated by human
culture and Jose shared stories music
and literature with them along with his
recipe for how to make the perfect
Pella he even told them a couple of
jokes he'd picked up while living in
England although the zelara showed no
signs of having any sense of
humor hey aliens want to hear another
joke Barry told me this one said Jose
one
afternoon the aliens just stared
impassively until finally one of them
said yes please give us more examples of
your fascinating Earth
humor okay guys look you're going to
love this one just promise not to probe
me if it doesn't make you laugh all
right the Zara looked at one
another never mind said Jose here's the
joke what did the Spanish fireman call
his two
sons the salara stared at each other
nodding their heads they seemed to be
conferring together trying to find the
best answer to Jose's
question one of them replied
telepathically our Research indicates
that the most common male names in Spain
currently are Martin and
Mato no no no no no no no said Jose
chuckling the Spanish fireman called his
two sons Jose and hose
B there was no reaction from the
Sara but Jose couldn't stop laughing at
his own joke get it hose a and hose B
hoses right firemen have hoses and he's
a fireman and and his first son is
called Jose and then hose B and but the
zelara didn't laugh instead they just
looked at Jose with their heads cocked
to one side
unblinking okay too much word play said
Jose it's it's all right I'll keep it
simple here's another one
ready what' you call a Spanish guy who's
lost his car what' you call a Spanish
guy who's lost his car
the aliens continued to stare unblinking
at
Jose one of them turned his head slowly
to look at the
others Spanish guy lost his car what's
his name said Jose his eyebrows raised
the aliens didn't
respond
Carlos Jose laughed out loud for a while
enjoying his own joke a bit too
much the zilara remained silent for a
while and then thanked Jose for
introducing them to more Earth humor
before politely leaving the
room in return for everything they
learned from him the zelara taught Jose
about their advanced technology and
Interstellar navigation which he thought
was a pretty fair trade even though he
was quite sure he'd never actually use
Interstellar navigation unless he
decided to start an Intergalactic Uber
service or something but he didn't want
to despite their differences and the
fact that they basically kidnapped him
Jose found himself growing fond of his
captors appreciating their wisdom and
the peacefulness of their
society despite their complete lack of
humor and their insistence on probing
him as part of their research which we
probably shouldn't talk about
now one day say that zelara informed
Jose that it was time for him to return
to
Earth they had gathered the information
they needed and as promised they would
send him back with his new knowledge
intact they even promised to provide him
with a new pair of trousers as the
others had been damaged during some of
their
research goodbye Jose son of a fireman
they said telepathically waving their
long graceful arms actually my father
was an office manager said Jose but
before he could continue the same
blinding light enveloped him once more
and when he opened his eyes he was back
in England standing in front of his
garage the sun was Rising now casting a
Golden Glow over the familiar
surroundings it seemed that he'd just
been standing there in front of his
garage all night with his mouth hanging
open
the whole experience felt like a dream
but the enhanced clarity of his thoughts
and speech told him otherwise his brain
was positively fizzing with brand new
Advanced English
vocabulary Jose resumed his life but he
was forever
changed after finally getting his
working Visa and indefinite leave to
remain in the UK he became a respected
author and public speaker sharing his
experiences through beautifully written
stories and Ted
Talks he even started his own podcast
which annoyingly became even more
popular than Luke's English
podcast but I suppose that's no surprise
considering he was the only human on
earth ever to have been abducted by
aliens who then shared all their
knowledge with him and so much
more hose's command of the English
language and his incredible anecdotes
captivated readers and audiences is
everywhere although he never saw the
zelara again he knew their encounter had
opened a new chapter in human alien
relations he cherished his time with the
aliens despite all the probing which he
wasn't convinced was absolutely
necessary and every time Jose made Pella
he couldn't help but chuckle wondering
if the zelara had learned to make it too
and how they would find saffron in deep
space
the end there you go that was the story
of the bizarre Abduction of Jose
Martinez all right so let me just kind
of summarize the story um in my own
words it's not really a very complicated
story actually that that question that I
asked you earlier which was what kind of
story is this well it's supposed to be a
kind of quirky funny science fiction
comedy really so sort of a bit of
science fiction bit of Comedy I suppose
so to sum up the story um yeah so Jose
Martinez Spanish guy who'd moved to
England uh to improve his English um and
he struggled with the typical things
that people struggle with uh when they
moved to England from a place like Spain
which um you know includes stuff like
obviously the language understanding
people when they spoke in different
accents to him and then all the other
usual typical things that U people tend
to complain about uh like the food the
weather um the um what what what else
was it the the fact there are there's
carpet
everywhere uh Which is less the case
these days but certainly in the past
English homes always used to have carpet
just all over the place which if you're
not used to living in homes with carpet
on the floor can feel a bit strange it
feels a bit Dusty or a bit sort of maybe
even unhygienic but it's nice and cozy
in the winter when when cold and you you
have to walk to the toilet in the middle
of the night and you've got lovely soft
carpet under your feet that's nice um
but anyway he struggled with various
things uh we'll look specifically at
what those things were again in a moment
um and uh then one day uh so he worked
as a mechanic or something in a garage
one day he was locking up his garage and
he saw a strange light in the sky the
light came flying towards him and he was
sort
of beamed up into a an alien spaceship
and he was abducted by aliens you know
just you know we've all it's happened to
all of us right you know you know when
you get abducted by aliens
God so annoying isn't it oh dear yeah
sorry I never got back to you about that
email yeah I got abducted by aliens for
six months oh you too God it happened to
my brother-in-law as well oh it's a
nightmare isn't it anyway so he got
abducted by aliens and uh um they kind
of approached him these weird long kind
of standard looking aliens really came
up to him and and attached a device to
his head which allowed them to
communicate with him telepathically and
they basically said so we um we're doing
uh Research into the human race I mean
they never explained why you know was
there was their research what about the
data who you know you need to surely
there needs to be some sort of data
protection um compliance with something
like that but no no just they just
unilaterally decided to uh take as much
data as they possibly could from the
humans and they wanted um to learn about
uh Jose's Spanish culture and language
and in return they were willing to share
with him all of the knowledge they'd
gained about
English um I mean they could have just
gone to Spain I mean there's loads of SP
I don't know why they had to do it in
England but anyway maybe maybe you know
maybe they they couldn't get a visa for
the EU I who knows um but uh so they um
flooded his brain with information about
English which obviously was amazing but
they also uh probably took lots of
information about Spanish Spanish
culture and language and they kept they
had to probe him as well uh which um
perhaps wasn't completely necessary if
you don't know what probing is I will
explain it in the sort of vocab part um
and he kind of grew to to like them
really uh spending time with them even
though it was uncomfortable at the
beginning he kind of grew to to uh be
quite friendly uh with uh these aliens
it kind of like Stockholm syndrome maybe
and he even told them a few jokes but
they have they had absolutely no sense
of humor and didn't get the jokes at all
I wonder if you understood those two
jokes I I expect the first joke probably
went straight over your head the second
joke is much easier to understand I'll
explain them I will dissect those jokes
um in a little bit and uh and then
eventually it was time for them to send
him back to Earth and as promised they
did that and he arrived back on Earth
but he was suddenly uh what's the word
in his his knowledge and his use of
English had been enhanced to an
incredible level uh where suddenly he
had mastered the English language and he
was able to
then become a uh a well recognized
author and public speaker doing TED
talks and writing best-selling books and
he even started his own podcast which
became annoyingly even more popular than
my podcast but it's no surprise and
that's kind of the end of the story and
he lived happily ever after that's
basically it
um now I don't mean to suggest this is
the only way that you can Master English
that the only way that you can really uh
Master English is to be abducted by
aliens who then use some sort of weird
alien technology to flood your brain
with vocabulary and grammar there are
other ways of learning of course you you
know that's not the only way um I mean
it helps but it's unlikely isn't it um
anyway so let's now go through some of
the vocab let's go through the story
again line by line and I'm going to
explain and point out some phrases from
this okay here are some phrases and bits
of vocabulary that you can pick up from
this um here we go the abduction AKA AKA
also known as okay that's um an acronym
AKA means also known as so this story is
called the abduction that's the short
title the full title is the bizarre
Abduction of Jose Martinez and
abduction um well we talk about an alien
abduction but to abduct someone is to
take someone or kidnap them it's another
word for kidnapping but uh someone can
be kidnapped or abducted uh but in the
case of aliens if aliens do it we always
use the word abduction aliens don't
kidnap people they abduct people um I
suppose do they do they actually do it I
mean has is this I know there are lots
of accounts of people saying that
they've been abducted by aliens and
especially in in the United States of
America for some reason in the US the
number at the number of alien abduction
reportings is
strangely completely focused on the
United States for some reason um and
there aren't that why is it the aliens
are only abducting American
citizens interesting that but anyway so
an alien abduction right um so Jose
Martinez was an ordinary man living in a
quaint little town on the outskirts of
London in England so we've got the word
Ord which is um you know not too
complicated uh synonyms of ordinary
would be normal typical usual common
place he was just an ordinary guy a
normal man a typical
bloke okay an ordinary person an
ordinary day just ordinary circumstances
for example it was just an ordinary day
at work nothing exciting happened or
she's an ordinary person there's nothing
particularly special about her um right
right just an ordinary person not a
superhero or anything like that you know
um ordinary man living in a quaint
little town quaint quaint means
attractive cute old-fashioned with a
specific style to it so a lot of towns
in England could be described as quaint
um little Villages if you've ever been
to somewhere like the cotswalds in
England it's full of these really quaint
little towns with little rivers or
streams running through them
um old-fashioned attractive cute maybe
with a specific style to it so a quaint
Village a quaint Cottage a quaint
custom for example we visited a quaint
Village in the cotswalds that looked
like something out of a fairy
tale um okay then we got the outskirts
of London in England the outskirts of
London uh we talk about the outskirts of
a city it means on the edge of the city
in the area surrounding the city okay so
uh for example they live on the
outskirts of the city it's on the
outskirts okay the new shopping center
is located on the outskirts of
town okay uh on the outskirts on the
edge of town but we also say in the
suburbs which is a similar thing I mean
the I suppose the difference between the
outskirts of town and the suburbs
normally we think of the the suburbs as
a sort of uh residential area which is
outside the city but in the area just
outside the city youve got City suburbs
Countryside probably the outskirts of
the city is just like this sort of like
similar to the suburbs might be the same
kind of thing but just the edge of the
city basically on the outskirts on the
edge of town in the
suburbs okay um originally from Spain
Jose had moved to the UK to improve his
English by immersing himself in the
language and culture immersing yourself
in the language an immersion
right to be surrounded by it to be kind
of fully inside it to be immersed um he
managed to find work as a mechanic
fixing up old cars in a small garage so
fixing up here is a phrasal verb it's
quite interesting maybe to compare just
the word fixing and the phrase fixing up
so to fix something is to repair it so
if you've got old cars that don't work
anymore you need to fix them so you get
your tools and fix them so that they
work again okay um but fixing something
up means not just repairing it but kind
of completely repairing it repairing it
totally and maybe even renovating it to
make it look new and presentable so you
can imagine if you've got an old beaten
up old car that not only doesn't work
but it looks kind of run down you would
fix it up so not just repair the engine
and other technical things but also make
it look nice make it usable that's to
fix something up okay here's a quick
quiz for you is it fix or fix up which
one would you use for example this one I
found this broken old bike in the market
I'm going to and give it to my son as a
birthday
present I found this broken old bike in
the market I'm going to hm and give it
to my son as a birthday present that
would be I'm going to fix it
up okay not just repair it but make it
look usable make it look nice and make
it usable completely again another one
their the spare bedroom before the baby
is born they are the spare bedroom
before the baby is born so they're going
to have a baby and they are sort of
preparing the spare bedroom maybe
redecorating it getting it ready uh for
the baby right right so that would be
they're fixing up the spare bedroom okay
and it's in the continuous form they're
fixing up the spare bedroom before the
baby is born um uh how about this
one I spent the afternoon our dishwasher
which had stopped working the night
before so you can imagine someone with
their head in the dishwasher trying to
maybe repair a part of the dishwasher so
it works again I spent the afternoon
fixing our dishwasher and again and that
is an ing form I spent the afternoon
doing it spend time doing something so I
found this old bike I'm going to fix it
up they're fixing up the spare bedroom I
spent the afternoon fixing our
dishwasher repairing it so that's fix
versus fix up let's keep going um so his
life was relatively simple and
uneventful except for one major hurdle
so relatively simple his life was simple
I think we understand that but his life
was relatively simple so relatively
adding this adverb before the adjective
simple um it just means it was simple
when compared to other people's lives so
it's kind of like saying fairly simple
reasonably simple quite simple
relatively simple compared to everyone
else's lives it's just one of those
grading adverbs you know uh which is
quite quite nice it's quite expressive
instead of saying his life was good you
know or his life was easy his life was
simple his life was fairly simple his
life was relatively
simple and
uneventful okay um
uneventful meaning without any major
events right fairly quiet not full of
drama quiet peaceful nothing much
happened really his life was
uneventful um and uneventful life an
uneventful day how was your week well
uneventful
really okay it's not particularly
negative or positive just means nothing
really happened very
much um his life was relatively simple
and uneventful except for one major
hurdle so a hurdle is an obstacle which
you have to get over like in the like in
athletics in the Olympics running you
got the running events uh track and
field events
running around the track you've got the
normal sort of 100 m Sprint or 200 M or
400 m running races but then you've got
let's say the 400 met hurdles and that's
when there are hurdles on the track that
you have to jump over so these things
these these barriers or obstacles that
you have to get over these are called
hurdles so a hurdle is basically an
obstacle that you have to deal with a
thing that gets in your way a problem
that you have to deal with in order to
continue uh a major hurdle is a big
hurdle or big significant obstacle so
his life was basically pretty simple
except for one big problem which he had
to deal with one major
hurdle his struggle to understand all
the different British accents and
dialects which he encountered on a daily
basis okay that's fairly clear he
encountered these accents and dialects
to encounter something um is to um
you know is
to essentially meet them to come across
them um you know you meet a person but
you encounter a problem right uh in this
case he ENC or encounter something he
encountered these different accents and
dialects okay in his in his daily life
he would meet people and they would
speak to him and it would be difficult
to understand them the difference
between accents and dialects accents are
the ways people in different communities
pronounce a language differently so
accents are all all about differences in
pronunciation so you've got ACC
different accents in London you've got
you know sort of a Birmingham accent a
Liverpool accent Manchester accent West
country accent Welsh accents different
Welsh accents different Scottish accents
uh different sort of norol and suffk
accents so many different accents all
over the country the just differences in
pronunciation and dialects are uh the
ways that different different
communities use different words in a
language um so that's dialect it's about
differences in vocabulary usage within
different communities of that language
uh dialects are also often considered to
be just like non-standard varieties of a
language okay so right basically all
these different versions of English that
he encountered uh the sorts of things
that you don't um typically get in uh
the average English language course book
that you might study with in your home
country often the the English that you
get from those is a sort of standard
received pronunciation but when you
actually go to the UK suddenly you
realize that everyone is kind of so many
people speak
a a version of the language which
doesn't quite match the one that you
have been taught um so these are the
things he encountered on a daily basis
and the food so of course people people
typically complain about the food in
England you
know uh and I'm fed up with hearing
about it to be
honest you know when I meet people who
uh who say oh yeah I went to England
let's say people from somewhere else I
went to England uh as a student or I
spent a year in England oh yeah what did
you think oh it was great and then they
always have to tell me oh except for the
food why do you have to tell me that why
do you have to give me a Trip Advisor
review for my country I don't why um you
know oh yeah thanks for you know people
feel the need they have to feel the need
to tell me that English food is is no
good I don't know why I don't even agree
you know there's plenty of really good
food you just have to know where to find
it um and I don't know what I'm supposed
to do with that information as well if
people tell me that like oh great okay
next time I'm I'm back in England I'll
make sure I tell everyone so oh everyone
yeah um yeah I know you're really
enjoying that sandwich but I think
you'll find that it's disgusting yeah
I've been told yeah we need to we need
to sort it out apparently I don't know
so there's the foods the weather of
course as everyone knows um people
always assume that it rains all the time
which is not true uh and how expensive
everything was well this is true in in
the UK amazingly everything is
incredibly expensive especially in
London and the drafty Windows
drafty a draft is air that kind of comes
in through the through the window if the
window isn't
perfectly
insulated right then little bits of cold
air might might come in the window and
if you're sitting next to the window if
you're sitting next to it with your back
to it you might feel like a a little
cold air on the back of your neck and
then suddenly you're you're aw you're
coughing and sneezing and you've caught
a cold because there's dra there are
drafts in your home and um this is
another thing that visitors to the UK or
at least students living in the UK and
studying English that I used to teach
for many years when I was teaching in
London this is one of the most common
complaints that people would complain
about the drafty
Windows um it's kind of true I think the
thing is that especially in London a lot
of the houses have got these
old-fashioned
Windows uh which date back to the
Victorian period these sash windows
these old really sort of grand looking
old wooden sliding windows they're
actually a good design in many ways and
people who have Windows like these
oldfashioned windows in their homes
don't really want to replace them
because first of all it's very expensive
to replace them because they've got like
complex systems in them and also uh
because the those old windows are
actually a selling point if a home's got
the original you know Victorian windows
that is kind of a selling point that it
means that there's value in the in the
property um and the tiny kitchens yeah
and the carpet everywhere I've I've
mentioned that carpet all over the place
which some people find strange and the
fact that there were always two Taps on
every bathroom sink yeah this is another
typical complaint which I have talked
about um a lot on this podcast over the
years that people complain about the
fact that there are two Taps typically
in British bathrooms
um and not one single unified tap that's
the point that they are separated Taps
that of course a lot of kitchens in
other of course a lot of bathrooms in
the rest of the world have a have a
mixer tap where you can you know mix the
water that comes out of one single tap
but typically if you've been to England
you might have seen this that you get
one tap on one side for for for cold
water another tap on the other side for
hot water and
you know what are you supposed to do in
that situation either you're getting ice
cold water from one side or you're
getting boiling hot water direct from
Hell on the other side how do you deal
with that and what you're supposed to do
is put the plug in the plug hole and
fill the uh the sink or the Basin full
of water and then wash your hands and
face in that water some people perhaps
understandably consider that to be
unhygienic because it means that you
know if the bowl is not completely clean
then that could be a bit dirty so I mean
as an English person growing up in
England this was never an issue for me
and I just never thought it was a
problem and when people started to
complain when I was you know teaching
English in London meeting people from
around the world and I would say you
know what's what's different about
England and this is one of the most
common complaints why do you have two
TAPS in the bathroom and I would kind of
say what do you mean why do you have two
Taps one for hot one for cold obviously
but then they would explain no but you
know we can't do it we don't understand
how how do you live like this you weird
English people um and I suppose what I
always did is either I would wash my
hands and face in cold water uh which
was fine really you know um and it when
people complained about that I I used to
think God you're so soft aren't you
everyone from the rest of the world
You're So Soft just a little bit of cold
water you're like I can't take it um but
I kind of understand now
so I'd either do that just wash in cold
water or I'd fill the sink and just make
sure the sink was fairly clean you know
and growing up in my house my mom always
made sure that things were clean so that
wasn't an issue uh but I suppose if
you're in a in shared accommodation in
London with a bunch of other students um
then maybe that might not be the case or
I would actually turn on the hot tap and
use the hot tap to wash my hands and
face and by the time I'd finished doing
all that the water would be uh too hot
right so but while I was doing it the
water would be slowly heating up because
you know often it takes time for the hot
water to heat up it's not instantly
boiling hot it kind of goes from cold to
through to quite warm to warm to nicely
warm to a bit too warm to boiling hot
right so I would manage to wash my hands
and face in the time it took the water
to get too
hot and also the other thing you can do
is kind of like mix it in your hands so
you get a bit hot bit of cold bit of hot
bit of cold and then use that so it was
never really a problem but I understand
why people would complain about that
here I am again talking about two TAPS
in the bathroom for the millionth time
on this podcast um so the fact there
were two TAPS in the bathroom when he
washed his hands uh when he washed he
either froze his hands in ice cold water
or completely boiled them there was also
the Visa issue because of brexit uh but
except except for all of that it was
wonderful just in case you don't know
about brexit um how could you not know I
mean I haven't talked about it for a
while but I used I did a long series
with my dad of episodes when brexit was
happening can you believe it's nearly 10
years ago it's like 8 and a half it's
about 8 years ago that the brexit
referendum happened basically this is
where the UK had a referendum uh which
was let I won't go into it don't get me
started but the UK had a referendum I
mean I won't go into what I think about
it UK had a referendum on membership of
the European Union and uh 50
51.8% of people voted to leave and so
that was it and then we left the EU um
but I still don't really know what the
advantages were supposed to be let's not
get into all the politics of it but it
was a bloody stupid idea um and uh one
of the problems is that now freedom of
movement is really difficult which means
that if you're an English or British
person you can't freely go and you know
our our freedoms and rights have been
reduced quite a lot you can't now just
go freely into Europe and travel and
work there you have complicated Visa
processes that you have to go through
similarly the other way around if you're
from the EU and you want to go to the UK
and stay there you've got a much more
complicated process of applying for
different kinds of visas and blah blah
blah that's brexit just a little bit of
brexit but um so except for all of that
it was wonderful uh one crisp autumn
evening so
crisp this is interesting in this
context the word crisp is being used to
describe the weather or the climate or
the
air um there are different definitions
of
crisp um either to describe the texture
of objects or materials or to describe
the weather or to describe a feeling of
clarity a sense of things being clear so
the general definition of crisp would
mean firm dry and brittle to the touch
like crisp
paper this this paper is this paper
is quite crisp right this is quite crisp
paper it's quite firm and dry um uh
crisp uh potatoes you know like uh
potato crisps when you eat them they
crunch they're quite dry and brittle uh
so that's the texture of CR crisp
texture in terms of whether crisp
weather or crisp air is cool fresh and
invigorating a lovely crisp
morning and in terms of clarity when
crisp refers to Clarity we talk about it
being clear and precise in sound in
appearance or in style clear and precise
so crisp audio crisp you know um one of
the things I like about Jose's podcast
is the crisp audio meaning it's really
clear crisp handwriting very clear
perfectly reproduced handwriting when
describing an Autumn evening crisp
refers to the cool fresh air often
experienced at that time of year um the
temperature is often chilly enough to
make you feel clear and invigor but not
freezing cold it also might suggest a
sense of clarity in the atmosphere
imagine cool air uh Vivid colors blue
sky freshness you know that's a crisp
autumn evening um Jose was closing up
his
garage so we had before we had fixing
something and fixing something up we now
have closing something and closing
something up so closing something means
as you know like you know to close the
door securing it finishing it we closed
the contract uh I closed the episode
closing a door closing a window right uh
closing up is the same thing finishing
it securing it uh but also adding up
there suggests an extra sense of
completeness in the case of the garage
that means that the whole garage is
closed right not just closing the door
but the whole thing is closed he's
turned out the lights he's shut down the
equipment he's finished all his work
he's tidied everything away he's put the
tools back in the boxes he's locked the
door business for the day is ended he's
locked the place up he's closed up the
garage right you see the difference we
often have up in phrasal verbs fix
something up close something up lock
something up the particle up in a
phrasal verb often conveys a sense of
completeness thoroughness or bringing
something to its final finished State
okay uh for example use up eat up uh to
use something up to eat something up to
listen up to clean up to break up to
tear up to lock up to dry up right I'll
go through those quite quickly so to uh
to use something up uh for example we
used up all the sugar while making the
cookies I used up all the ink in my pen
when I was writing I used up all the ink
in my pen while I was writing notes uh
while listening to Luke's English
podcast the episode was so long I used
up all the ink in an entire pen um
meaning to consume all of something
until there's none left eat something up
or drink something up come on eat up
your dinner before it gets cold means
finish eating everything on your plate
come on drink it up there's a good
there's a good boy or drink it down as
well we also say meaning it goes all the
way down inside you uh listen up means
now listen up it's not just listen but
listen with your full attention now
listen up I've got something very
important to tell
you all right Luke's English podcast
premium is available at teacher luke.
co.uk premium info okay um to clean up
means to tidy everything make something
completely clean for example after the
party we stayed up late to clean up the
mess when my son has played with all his
toys and they're all over the floor we
sing the cleanup song and we say clean
up clean clean up everybody everywhere
and he's supposed to clean up with me
but it's generally just me clean up
clean up everybody everywhere or maybe
just me then okay um you clean up all
the mess to break up end a relationship
completely um not just break but break
up suggesting it's permanent they
decided to break up after 5 years
together tear something
up means to rip something or tear
something
into small pieces
completely so to tear something would
maybe just be once but to tear something
up is to tear it into tiny little pieces
tearing it up into pieces right she tore
up the letter in
frustration she tore the letter so she
tore up the letter you know it's like
Dear Sophie I'm sorry but I've decided
to leave you I've fallen in love with
another person you know well that's the
end of that then tear up the letter into
tiny
pieces right that's to tear something up
right uh lock up secure something
completely by locking it don't forget to
lock up the house
so that's to lock up the house right you
know everyone's got that many locks on
their house haven't they uh to dry up
meaning meaning to become completely dry
or to exhaust the supply of something
for example the river dried up in the
summer so all the water went away went
completely dry the river dried up my
inspiration you know you might say your
your inspiration or motivation could dry
up hopefully my inspiration or
motivation for doing these podcasts will
never dry
up okay so that was closing up Jose was
closing up his garage the sun setting in
a blaze of orange and red behind the
gray clouds the sun sets in the evening
and it rises in the morning so that's um
sunset and sunrise a blaze of orange and
red a blaze is a
fire so in this case it's it's sort of
um an a metaphor to describe the color
of the sky a blaze of orange and red
okay um
mhm then we have next we have um
as he was locking the door he noticed a
strange light in the sky okay at first
he thought it was a plane then perhaps a
drone or maybe a ball from that weird
game called Cricket that people play in
England oh Cricket oh no one understands
the rules do they actually they do
second most popular spectator sport in
the world you should know and whenever I
say that there's always someone who goes
yeah but that's just because of just CU
it's popular in India it's like why what
what and that doesn't count why why just
because it's popular in India there're
still humans that still
counts right that's wrong isn't it
anyway but no it was something even
Stranger than that it moved erratically
zigzagging across the sky if something
moves erratically or if something is
ertic it means it moves in an
inconsistent way in an irregular or
unpredictable way you know like an alien
spaceship moving unpredictably this way
and that way
um I don't know is that how alien
spaceships move I don't know maybe if if
the if the person doesn't know where
they're going if the aliens like oh over
there no no left left left left you know
or the aliens like oh the the the GPS
isn't working the satnav is not working
that way no no turn left oh no no no you
know where are you going I told you you
didn't tell you know can't you read a
map there two aliens arguing in a in a
UFO the UFOs is moving erratically
um yes
zigzagging it's a it's a movement in
diagonal lines to move diagonally that's
zigzagging right you know like the way
you have you're supposed to run when you
are being chased by a crocodile did you
know this well next time you're being
chased by a crocodile just remember that
you're supposed to run in in zigzag
lines so diagonally left and right the
reason being that um crocodiles are not
very good at
turning and running they tend to prefer
running in one single Direction and if
you turn they're like oh for God's
sake and then you turn left and they're
like oh God all
right I can't be bothered I'm going back
to the river so next time you're being
chased by a crocodile make sure you run
in a zigzag kind of
fashion
yes um curiosity got the better of
Jose curiosity we know the feeling of
being curious H what's that oh I'd love
to know more about that what is that I'd
love to have another look at that what
is it should we go over and have a
look what is that thing
anyway no but what's but really though
what is that right that's curiosity but
curiosity got the better of him if
something gets the better of you right
to get the better of someone it means
that a feeling becomes so powerful that
it takes control over you and then
guides your actions so something becomes
an Impulse which makes you do something
it got the better of me so for example
his emotions got the better of
him meaning like his anger got the
better of him so he decided to stop the
car and get out and have an
argument curiosity got the better of her
and she looked up his profile on
Facebook
anger got the better of me I'm sorry I'm
sorry I snapped I didn't mean to
snap okay it's just that you know when
you said that thing this the anger got
the better of me fear got the better of
her and she um decided to stay
in her curiosity got the better of her
she opened the mysterious box he wanted
to stay calm but his anger got the
better of him during the argument I
tried to resist but the Temptation got
the better of me and I ate the
cake his fear got the better of him and
he decided not to take the risk so in
this case curiosity got the better of
Jose and he stood there staring at this
phenomenon with his mouth hanging open
so a phenomenon is just like a a a a
thing that happens that might be
significant or
extraordinary right it's just a a thing
that happens
H right that could be out of the
ordinary um he stood there with his
mouth hanging open so his mouth was open
uh like you would do if you saw an alien
spaceship UFO thing in the sky you would
probably go
uh what's
that is that a
UFO no way you would probably stand with
your mouth hanging open and you would
look quite stupid and the uo the aliens
would be like what about him what about
him should we abduct him and like no he
looks like an idiot look at him with his
mouth hanging
open what about
me um yeah that's why I've never been
abducted by an
alien cuz I'm always just uh like that
anyway suddenly the light grew brighter
and zoomed towards Jose at an incredible
speed so the light grew brighter so grow
we know grow meaning get bigger but
sometimes if something sometimes the
word grow means become right so um the
light grew bigger um other examples
after listening to episodes of Luke's
English podcast my vocabulary has grown
stronger um I've grown more confident
over the years meaning I've become more
confident I liked the first series of
The Walking Dead here's another example
I like the first series of that zombie
TV show The Walking Dead But it grew
boring after about Series 6 or seven I
mean how many times can they repeat the
same story lines over and over and
everything seemed to happen on one
single stretch of road in the georgean
countryside I mean just like it grew
very boring um so that's to grow
brighter to grow better to grow stronger
to grow more more and more boring uh
meaning
become uh the light zoomed towards Jose
at an incredible speed so it zoomed
meaning it went really fast if something
zooms it means it goes fast usually in
some kind of motor driven
machine they zoomed past me you know
Zoom is I suppose an honor matter payer
it's one of those words that sounds like
the things it describes Zoom
right I zoom down the road on a
motorbike and then I crashed into a tree
and
died the end um it can be for other
things too not just motor driven
Vehicles My Kids Zoom down this road on
their skateboards making so much noise
the son my son and his friend spent the
morning zooming around the back Garden
playing games I don't know where they
get their energy from just running
around the garden look at them zooming
around in the garden also Zoom is that
famous teleconferencing software as well
a zoom call a zoom meeting you know
that's a company's name Zoom why did
they call themselves
Zoom I suppose it was to in evoke a
feeling of efficiency speed Clarity you
know Zoom is also a thing you do with a
camera you zoom in on something and zoom
out zoom in and out zoom in to get
closer zoom out to get wider uh so maybe
that's what the company zoom we're
looking for something about zooming in
getting a detailed view but also things
moving quickly and efficiently and also
Zoom is quite a a Snappy memorable word
isn't it um before he could react Jose
was enveloped in a blinding white light
to be enveloped in something now you've
got the word envelope an envelope right
do you remember envelopes do you
remember these things I've got some
envelopes in my room which I'm probably
never ever going to use I wouldn't be
surprised if I lived my entire life
without ever using up my supply of
envelopes that I have on the Shelf over
there envelopes are things that you put
letters in remember letters things we
used to write on paper that's right um
yeah I'm being stupid of course but uh
you write a letter you fold the letter
you put it in an in an envelope and then
you you seal the envelope closed put the
stamp on it put the address on it and
post it right those were the days
weren't they um not really it was it was
annoying you know it would take ages it
would take days for a message to get to
someone you
know imagine that these days you can
just type to someone hey what you doing
and then instantly they reply to you but
in the in the days before texts and
emails and stuff you would literally
have to write a letter dear
Mr
Stevenson what are you doing yours
sincerely Luke
Thompson in the post six days later you
get a reply I've got my letter from Mr
Stevenson my friend Mr Stevenson I'll
open it with my letter
opener you open it up and and and Dear
Mr Thompson not very much you're
sincerely Mr Steven S he's not really
doing anything all right well I'll write
to him again would you like to come over
and play Playstation with me Mr you know
it just it would take bloody
ages um these days you need to do it in
you know on WhatsApp can't you anyway so
that's an envelope right but to be
enveloped is the verb right an
envelope contains a letter right the
letter is inside the envelope the
envelope is
around surrounding the letter covering
it in this case Jose was inside this
white light the white light was all
around him and he was inside it he was
like the letter in the envelope but in
this sense the white light was the
envelope and it enveloped him so envelop
is the verb and envelope is the noun but
you can see there's a difference in word
stress envelop envelop that's three
syllables stress on the second syllable
he was
enveloped and envelope the noun the
stress is on the first syllable also
enveloped this is one of those Ed ending
uh verbs in the past form so many of
these but this is got a this one's got a
t sound so he was
enveloped uh depending on what your
first language is you might be tempted
to say he was en enveloped but nope it's
enveloped he was enveloped in a white in
a blinding white light so uh
blinding okay um blinding a blinding
white light um a a white A light that is
blinding um is very very bright and it
it means you can't see like what's that
a blinding white light I can't see wait
a minute oh say Martinez who's that I
can't see you switch out the switch off
the light for goodness
sake you know hose Martinez what who is
that I can't see anything
Jose Martinez I I can't see what's going
on should we just leave him he seems to
be an idiot this one okay off they
go um that would be a shorter story um a
blinding white light he felt his feet
leave the ground so you know he felt his
whole body went up in the air and he
could feel his his feet come off the
ground he started floating his feet lost
contact with the ground he felt his feet
leave the ground right oh bloody hell he
said because that's what English people
say in this situation and he was trying
to blend in so to blend in another
phrasal verb if you blend in it means
that you are the same as everyone else
so you're not obviously different you
don't really stick out so to blend in to
mix with everything else and become part
of everything else uh we use it in other
situations as well for example if you
are cooking you would blend ingredients
together you you know you blend egg and
cream when you're making a kiche you put
the egg in a bowl you put the cream in
the bowl and you mix it you whip it or
you blend it all together you might use
a blender which would be a machine you
put the ingredients in the machine and
then press the button
and it Blends all of the ingredients
that's blend to blend in with something
is to kind of
like um mix in with others okay um when
when talking about something that people
do blend in means to be the same as
everyone else so that people don't
notice you in this case Jose wants to
act like British people so he can
integrate into society and to do the
same things that the locals do all right
this is a bit like me when I wear a
stripy t-shirt in France and I always
have one with me you know I've always
got a stripey T-shirt with me in my bag
so that if I ever need to blend in I can
just put that on and start smoking a
cigarette maybe grab a baguette and I'm
fine and no one knows that I'm English
cuz I've successfully Blended in and if
if I'm still not sure and then you know
I just go on strike maybe get stuck in a
traffic jam start talking about food and
then I will blend in and everyone
assumes I'm French as long as well I
can't start speaking about food I have
to just eat just eat some food um go
shopping for some food as long as I
don't speak then I can blend in quite
quite comfortably
um when he woke up Jose found himself in
a sterile metallic room sterile means
clean with no bacteria for example a
laboratory should be a sterile
environment unless of course you are
actually growing bacteria there but you
know what I mean an operating theater
where surgery happens that should be
sterile the instruments used by the
doctors the scalpel and stuff should be
completely sterile all the needles and
swabs
those wooden things that doctors put in
your mouth and stick on your tongue and
they say ah say ah they put a wooden
thing that should be sterile if they put
a thermometer in your mouth the
thermometer should be sterile sterile
especially if it's been used by someone
just before you and especially if you
live in France where they tend to check
your body temperature with a thermometer
by putting it in your bum yeah um they
love doing that here because apparently
it's more accurate right yeah okay
okay yes um metallic so he woke up in a
sterile metallic room metallic means
made of metal or something similar to
metal a metallic room a metallic taste
you can have uh water you know this
water has a sort of metallic
taste if you keep water in a metal um
container then the water might end up
having a metallic taste you can hear
have a metallic sound clang clang a
metallic sound a metallic color example
a car can have a metallic color do you
like my car I chose metallic blue for
the paint it looks nice doesn't it so
that's
metallic
Metallica heavy metal band um at first
he thought he was still in England he
was cold and a bit uncomfortable like
normal cuz it's cold and uncomfortable
in England isn't it no not always
actually um then Panic set in when he
noticed there was no carpet on the floor
and you know he knew he'd definitely
become very English there um if
something sets in it means it takes
effect it starts to happen it becomes
noticeable it's a feeling and then the
feeling gradually arrives and then it
stays so the feeling sets in Jose
suddenly started to feel panic panic set
in other examples of set in Jane uh in
in terms of feelings or emotions Jane
suddenly realized she'd lost her phone
as the reality of the loss set in she
began to cry oh wait I got my phone
no okay um unwelcome or persistent
conditions could set in Winter set in
early this
near winter set in early this year the
cold set in uh early this year uh
negative developments if untreated the
infection can set in and become more
serious the infection can take hold and
get
worse um yes and he realized he'd been
abducted by aliens so there's that
there's that word again we say abducted
by aliens not kidnapped by aliens
um yeah this is when you need Liam niss
isn't it I mean that they they need to
do sorry to talk about taken and Liam
niss again uh but they need to do I mean
we still haven't had taken four but
obviously they need to bring in a
science fiction alien element into that
don't they taken four you know where his
daughter gets abducted by aliens I don't
know who you are I don't know which
planet you've come
from I don't know what you
are all the I don't know what you I
don't understand your language I know
you have my daughter if you give her if
you let her go now that'll be the end of
it um that would be good I would
definitely watch that Pew Liam niss is
Brian Mills taken for taken to
Mars and C Mar's new you from Friday um
yes so moving on he tried to sit up but
his body felt heavy to sit
up um now uh it it it doesn't so what's
the difference between sit and sit up
the up part here refers
to uh it's more literal than we've had
before like close up lock up you know
all those things sit up here means sit
in an upright position okay so you know
the only time you we say sit up is when
you you've been lying lying down or
lying back and then you go into a
sitting position an upright sitting
position with your upper body vertical
but you're not standing so we might as
well we might as well say sit he tried
to sit but what it really means is he
tried to go from a lying down position
to a vertical sitting position he tried
to sit up h
that's sit up but funnily enough to sit
down as you probably know means to go
from a vertical position to a sitting
position so sit up is from horizontal to
sitting and sit down is from vertical to
sitting
yes God it's useful isn't it this
podcast I mean you know where else are
you going to learn these things sit up
sit
down uh in a dictionary no doubt or any
other language learning material that
teaches that sort of thing what am I
talking about okay he tried to sit up
but his body felt heavy heavy and his
head was
spinning his head was spinning it means
his head was going around really really
fast bit like a basketball on someone's
finger you know those cool people who
can they get a
basketball and then they spin it on
their finger aren't they annoying people
who can do that and I'm like oh yeah
that looks easy no basketball instantly
falls off I've never managed to make a
basketball spin on my
finger uh anyway to spin his head was
spinning so he felt dizzy he felt kind
of um disoriented right the door slid
open slid is the past form of slide
slide slid slid so a door slid open
so cuz doors on alien spaceships or UFOs
they never have
normal they never have doors like that
do they on
spaceships yes what is it uh Zar 3 we
have observed the humans and we think
that an abduction may be possible thank
you Ziglar 3 you can go back to your
post like no alien UFOs have doors like
that it's
always or or some other sort of sliding
door every time
um so the door slid open and two figures
emerged two figures entered the room so
figures here means the out a figure is
like the outline of a person's body so
we can call a person a figure when we
can't quite see them clearly we can just
maybe see their outline so you might say
you know uh there was a figure in the
distance I saw two figures in the
distance I saw two figures walking up
the dark Street
you could also say people in those
situations but figures suggests body
shapes it's a bit more specific and
obviously in this case these these
things were not people they were kind of
things that looked a bit like the shape
of people in a way but they weren't
people so two figures figures also can
refer to numbers we say facts and
figures um a figure can also be a number
as well right uh figures can be numbers
on a on a document or spreadsheet or
something something like that so figures
can be numbers or like the shape of
someone's body um they were humanoid but
taller humanoid means sort of looks like
human same kind of body shape as a human
or maybe acts like one but isn't human
looks like a human but isn't human arms
legs head
body you know that sort of thing so um
humanoid uh human shaped let's say with
elongated limbs limbs are arms and legs
right there's a B in the word limbs but
the the B is silent like in
climb okay and
comb uh that you use to comb your hair
climb climb a tree those all those words
have got a silent B in them and limb
elongated
limbs arms and legs elongated means long
and thin narrow and
slender right longer than normal uh
they're with large Armen shaped eyes
Armen shaped eyes shaped like an Armen
obviously but that kind of um you know
like alien eyes they're Armen shaped and
notice the pronunciation of Armond uh
also has a silent letter in this case
the silent letter is L so that's Armond
it's not almond it's
Armen other words with a silent L while
we're on the subject uh calm you know uh
calm and quiet calm c a l m calm Palm
the palm of your hand that's the soft uh
underside of your hand the side that you
use to hold something that's the palm of
your hand p a l m the Yoke of an egg
that's the yellow part of an egg is
called the Yoke y l k but it's
pronounced yoke uh walk uh to
walk w a l k of course and to talk t a l
k a talk could would and should all have
an L in them but it's not could would or
should it's could would should and folk
like folk music f o l k folk and the
word half half quarter eth uh half h a
LF but pronounced half okay let's move
on I've got to I've got to hurry up a
little bit
here uh imagine a yoga instructor had
had a baby with some kind of insect
had had yes this is possible normal and
frequent it's just when we use when we
conjugate the verb have in past perfect
uh to have in this case to have a baby
but imagine a yoga instructor had had a
baby so it's past perfect with the verb
have okay it's normal common for example
I decided that I had had enough
enough I decided that I had had enough
that's how you pronounce that that or I
decided that I'd had enough just often
in spoken English the auxiliary had gets
contracted to H just just the DU sound
I'd had enough I decided I'd had enough
I decided I had had enough uh when I
stood up I realized I'd had too much to
eat or I had had too much to eat after
we'd had a break after we had had a
break after we'd had a break we got back
to
work okay so uh that's what they looked
like standard alien stuff really
standard alien stuff just the typical
normal standard things you get from
Aliens in this kind of story or film
nothing particularly original here just
standard alien stuff tall kind of blue
colored things with Armen shaped eyes
and no nose and sliding doors lot of
sliding doors
everywhere their skin had a bluish color
bluish is I've explained this before
here we go again is is a
that we add to words um often adjectives
to mean approximately or kind of
something like okay uh so that is the
suffix is we use it with adjectives like
it's
neish I mean it's quite new it's a kind
of bluish greenish
color right it's sort of blue sort of
green we also use it with approximate
times and numbers
she's sort of
30ish right she's about 30 years old
let's meet what time uh about
12ish around about 12:00 that's ish they
had a bluish their skin had a bluish
color uh and they me they moved with an
eerie Grace Eerie means strange weird
odd bizarre a little bit creepy maybe
ooh like the way the aliens moved so
gracefully was almost like a bit strange
a bit creepy an eerie feeling an eerie
noise she heard the eerie noise of the
wind howling through the
trees uh an eerie feeling he had the
Eerie feeling that he'd met this
stranger before you know uh haven't we
met before uh no no no no no no no no no
no I'm sure I've met you before well
actually now that you say it I am your
father
no so um Eerie feeling uh and they moved
with an eerie Grace so um a quality of
moving in a smooth relaxed and
attractive way a bit like a ballet
dancer or a ballroom dancer move with
such they move with such grace and
elegance ballet dancer notice that the t
is not pronounced it's not ballet but
ballet a ballet dancer
okay okay uh one of them approached Jose
and placed a device on his forehead uh
uh one of them approached him meaning
moved towards him and placed a device
placed in this case means put it in a
specific place in this case on his
forehead he placed this device on his
forehead the forehead is the front part
of your head where if you play football
that's the bit where you head the
ball right in a game with football you
hit the ball with your forehead or if
you
are sort of exasperated by something you
slap your forehead oh God not again and
you slap your forehead with your with
the palm of your hand oh face palm oh my
God normally you smack your forehead
right um so uh one of them placed a
device on his
forehead
um okay moving on Jose felt a slight
tingling sensation a tingling sensation
is a feeling in your body or in parts of
your body as if tiny little pins and
needles are touching your
skin right that's a tingling sensation
you might get it in your legs if you've
been sitting in one position for too
long
okay uh like whenever I go to a Japanese
restaurant and I have to sit on the
floor after about 10 minutes I get a
tingling sensation in my legs and I have
to stand up oh I've got to stand up I
can't sit like this for too long very
inflexible uh my when my legs go dead
from sitting on the floor for too long
uh if you hold out your arm in front of
you for a long time the blood eventually
drains from your arm and you you might
start to get a tingling sensation in
your arm so generally it just describes
a sort of strange sensation in your body
that could be due to a loss of blood or
a loss of circulation or it could be
fear or it could be excitement or it
could be some sort of sort of
electromagnetic signal or something like
that or or alien technology right um so
I imagine I mean it's never happened to
me but I imagine that when an alien
places a brain communication device on
your forehead and switches it on you
would feel a tingling sensation and you
might think God I hope that the I hope
there aren't many radioactive
um
uh sort of waves that come from this I
mean I thought mobile phones were a
problem but this thing probably it's
gonna fry my brain isn't it uh excuse me
sorry could you could
you so if you've ever been abducted by
aliens ands they connect mind reading
technology directly to your brain and
communicate with you telepathically
telepathically let us know in the
comment section if that's ever happened
to you did it give you a sort of
tingling
sensation let us know in the comments
section uh do not be afraid do not be
afraid Jose Martinez ofo voice echoed in
his mind echo echo echo echo echo is
when a sound repeats probably when it
bounces off different surfaces a bit
like when you're in a cave and you shout
hello hello hello hello right you hear
the voice bouncing back presumably the
voice in this case The Voice echoed
inside Jose's mind because presumably
his mind is his brain is quite empty or
something and and and the sound just
bounced around inside his skull this is
what it's like inside your head because
there's not there's nothing in here
either that or it's just the effect of
the mysterious technology I don't know
uh we mean you no harm they said we mean
you no harm just means we don't intend
to hurt you we don't intend to harm you
this phrase is definitely used this is
definitely the phrase to use when you
encounter a frightened creature or an
species from another Planet you can just
say we mean you no harm we come in peace
why does my voice sound like this I
don't this is what it sounds like in
space we now you know we we we are from
Earth we mean you no harm we come in
peace now please take me to your leader
show me all your resources so I may take
them back to my home planet of Earth and
use them for our own selfish
purposes you know whenever if you do
meet some sort of simple uh
primitive civilization from another
planet just to say that and you'll be
all right um who are you why do you even
have lips said Jose let's move on uh he
was he thought he was on some sort of TV
prank show a prank show is a practical
uh uh joke show a prank is a practical
joke like a little trick that you would
play on someone for fun like for example
swapping the sugar for salt or vice
versa swapping the sugar uh in the
cupboard for salt and then watching your
brother put loads of salt in his coffee
and filming his reaction uh when he
tastes it and nearly throws up
everywhere all over himself because it's
so disgusting and then laughing about it
and putting it on the
internet um for everyone to
see that would be a prank pranks aren't
always filmed but that's a prank TV
prank show is one where people play
pranks on each other and it's all filmed
with hidden cameras and then they make a
TV show out of it you know the kind of
thing um oh Jose what have you got
yourself into this time so to get
yourself into something means to cause
yourself to be in a certain situation to
to get into a difficult or problematic
situation the sort of thing that you
would say if you found yourself in a
tricky situation and you kind of it's
your fault that you got into that
situation oh what have I got myself into
now imagine meeting some strangers in a
pub getting to know them a bit and then
they invite you to their home for a game
of cards and you say yeah okay and when
you arrive things are all a bit strange
and there are other people there and it
seems they've been having some kind of
strange party and doing things and they
want you to join in and you think oh God
how did I become part of this I just
want to leave and escape to the toilet
and you stand and look in the mirror and
think to yourself oh god what have I got
myself into this
time um not that not that that's ever
happened to me of course I mean you know
um it's just an example yeah um we are
the zelara the alien replied
telepathically telepathic means being
able to communicate with other people
just using your mind using special magic
mind connections uh and not words or
physical
signals so just telepathic communication
if you if you suddenly hear a voice in
your head like this it means that
someone is communicating with you
telepathically yes you left your
Bluetooth connection on and I've been
able to hack it um yeah so that's
telepathic communication to to reply
telepathically yes um to be honest if
this kind of telepathic communication
Tech technology ever gets to Earth and
is introduced here then my job as an
English teacher is finished isn't it I
mean that's I'm done you know this is
why I think that we should be very
hostile and aggressive against aliens we
need some hostile aggressive anti-alien
policy on
Earth to prevent huge job losses for
tefl
teachers who whose jobs are already
under threat from you know AI technology
the last thing we need is aliens coming
in with telepathic mind
readers um I think Jose should
immediately inform the Army about his
Alien Encounter so they can send special
space Commandos from Earth into space to
track down the zelara and then shoot
their spaceships with laser rockets and
blow them all up just to protect my job
but it's not going to happen is it it's
not going to happen who cares about
teachers anyway uh We've chosen you Jose
Martinez for an experiment that will
benefit both our
kinds kinds here means kinds of people
this usage is a bit old-fashioned it's a
sort of oldfashioned sounding language
referring to people types of people as
kinds just kinds not kinds of people but
just kinds it will benefit both our
kinds it's a sort of thing you hear in
science fiction especially Star Wars
especially the Mandalorian for some
reason
you know you hear the people are always
talking about he's not of your kind you
know and we need to take him back so he
can be with his kind I need to return
the child to his kind or your kind
aren't welcome here or you are the last
of your kind you know it's the sort of
thing you hear in that sort of Science
Fiction
stuff in normal English we would just
say kind of people I need to return the
child back to his people or your your
kind of people are not welcome here or
you are the last of your kind of
people you are the last of you know are
English teacher you are the last of your
kind AI developments and alien
technology have uh made all of your kind
redundant you know that's that's the
sort of thing that's going to happen in
my worst
nightmares what is it darling Oh I had
the dream again oh not about the
aliens um Jose's fear slowly began to
subside uh subside go down become less
strong okay uh look if it's about my
Visa I'm in the process of renewing it
to be in the process of renewing
something meaning you're yeah you're
currently trying to renew it to renew
your Visa renew your passport make it
new again I'm currently in the process
of renewing my Visa I'm you know um
working on getting it I'm basically I'm
doing the paperwork Gathering the
documents um the zelara didn't let him
finish we've developed a technology that
allows us to share knowledge through
direct neural transfer transfer of
course moving information from one thing
to another like Bluetooth or something
wifi or just emailing someone um a
document with wetransfer.com uh direct
neural transfer neural relates to the
body's nerve systems and the Brain
so direct neural transfer is moving
information directly from one brain to
another brain a bit like using a Wi-Fi
connection or Bluetooth to transfer a
PDF from your friend uh to to from your
friend transfer a PDF to your friend
rather than sending it by email you can
just talk directly to someone by direct
neural
transfer um let's move on move on move
on a flood of information surged into
Jose's mind surged means quickly rushed
in to Surge means to move in quickly
also it could be a noun a surge or a
sudden Rush of something an electrical
surge water surged into the
boat okay uh and suddenly he uh was
aware of all the nuances of the English
language nuances are small subtle
details if you know all of the nuances
of English then you know all the
specific subtle little details rules
meanings words and you know them in a
very detailed way you know all the
subtle nuances of the English
language um it was overwhelming like
whoa this is a bit too much like that
time Barry tried to explain the rules of
snooker after they drunk seven pints of
Guinness so overwhelming is is too much
too much information and it's confusing
snooker as you may know because it's
popular in other places too but is a
British game I think it's originally
British I think invol using a one a long
wooden queue to hit balls around a large
table with pockets in the corners and
the
sides that's the sound it makes the
satisfying sound of playing a game of
snooker oh it's a lovely sound isn't
it uh the rules are quite complicated in
snooker you know it's more complicated
than playing a game of pool which is
that smaller version that you find in
pubs and stuff where you know you just
have to pot the balls with the stripes
or the balls with the with the with the
spots on it it's an American game it's
more simple snooker is a lot more
complicated and you've got red balls you
got a yellow ball a brown ball a green
ball a blue ball a pink ball and a black
ball and you got to pot them in a
certain order and there are specific
rules it's not as complicated as Cricket
but it's a bit complicated so if someone
tried to explain the rules of snooker to
you after you drunk seven pints of
Guinness it might be a bit overwhelming
like what I hold I don't know what's
going on what talking about plus Jose
hadn't actually given his consent for
anything any any of this so the aliens
were doing all these things to him but
they never actually asked him if it was
okay he never gave his consent to give
your consent means to give your
permission or agreement that something
can happen especially something that
involves uh possible risks to you so you
have to give your consent to doctors
before they do surgery if a child goes
on a school trip the parents have to
give their consent
so the aliens seem to be experimenting
on Jose they've abducted him and they're
sharing all their knowledge with him and
taking all his knowledge as well and
apparently probing him as well which is
very suspicious but he didn't give him
any permission for this he didn't give
them consent to do any of these things
in normal circumstances that might be
considered to be some sort of crime
depending on the circumstances another
reason why we should send space
Commandos to track down the zelara Liam
niss needs to be fired out into space in
order to hunt down the zelara and find
them and blow up their
spaceship however as the minutes passed
Jose felt his understanding of English
deepen to an extraordinary
level he could speak read understand and
write English with impeccable Precision
Precision is the quality of being
precise meaning exact specific accurate
and careful sir surgeons doing an
operation on someone's heart need a lot
of precision for obvious reasons so they
don't whoops slip and oh whoops oh dear
you know they need to be very precise
they need a lot of precision impeccable
Precision means perfect with no mistakes
at all okay um
yes
uh um days turned into weeks and um his
initial the discomfort of his initial
adduction uh wore off so to wear off it
means it becomes less strong in its
effect the effects gradually
disappear uh common collocations with
wear off include pain pain wears off I
broke my leg but after I took the
painkillers the pain wore off drugs or
medication can wear off but when the
painkillers wore off the pain came back
excitement can wear off when I was a
child I used to get so excited on
Christmas Day and I'd be so excited i'
we'd open our presence but then
eventually the excitement wore off and
the next day I would be left feeling
with a a sense of sadness or emptiness
as the excitement of Christmas
eventually wore off so the effects of
something can wear off the effects of
alcohol can wear off discomfort can wear
off
okay um let's move on um so he tells
them some
jokes right the the first one is
difficult to explain
um okay what did the Spanish fireman
call his two
sons how am I going to explain this one
okay let's just take it bit by bit and I
will dissect the
joke what did the Spanish fireman call
his two sons and we're thinking no idea
Spanish fireman a fireman is a
firefighter someone who if there's a
fire they come and try and put the fire
out with water okay a fireman what did
this what did the Spanish firemen call
his two sons you're thinking uh I don't
know the zaro of course don't understand
the whole concept of jokes and they try
to answer the question they're like well
um you know we understand that uh Martin
and Mato are common Spanish names and
hose is like no no no no you don't
understand um the Spanish fireman called
his two sons Jose and hose
B so Jose is a common Spanish name Jose
I'm probably pronouncing it wrong but
Jose sounds in English like hose
a
Jose so right Jose is the first name the
second son was called hose B so it
sounds like the fireman called his two
children hose a and hose b a hose is a
thing that fireman uses to fight a fire
it's like a big tube full of water
and they use it to shoot water at the
fire you have a hose in your garden
which you used to put water on the
garden right that's a hose he called his
two sons Jose and hose
B oh dear I'm I'm not going to waste
more time trying to explain that either
you get it or you don't get it but I'm
sorry if you don't get it let's move on
the next joke is maybe you're like the
zelara and you just no reaction at all
like huh what what is this Earth humor
um Jose then told him another another
joke first of all actually the the the
aliens look at him with their heads
cocked to one side if your head if you
your head to one side you change
the angle of your head meaning you make
it lean to one side as if you don't
really understand something so if you're
looking at someone who you think might
be a little bit strange you might uh
your head to one side are you okay
you're a bit weird aren't you what is
this strange joke
H like that um too much word play said
Jose word play is when you play with
words maybe making Rhymes or using
double meanings with words to create
other meanings a lot of jokes or puns
involve word play word play or puns can
be difficult to understand if it's not
your first language depending on the pun
of
course Spanish fan called his two sons
Jose okay and the next name hose B oh I
see oh I see hose B because he's a
fireman Jose it means it's not Jose the
name but hose a and hose B because he's
a firan right yeah not the best joke
ever I get it
but uh next one is what do you call a
Spanish guy who's lost his car car loss
right I mean I don't even need to expl
that one which probably makes it a much
better
joke uh Jose says Spanish guy lost his
car what's his name said Jose with his
eyebrows raised when your eyebrows are
raised if you have eyebrows I do have
eyebrows I promise I promise I do it's
just the hair on my eyebrows is quite uh
what's the word for it fair uh and not
exactly that thick so I promise I do
have eyebrows every now and again on
YouTube people write what happened to
your eyebrows did you shave your
eyebrows off
I don't know why people would write that
what's the purpose of writing
that like of course I didn't shave off
my
eyebrows stupid question anyway to raise
your eyebrows is when you make your
eyebrows go up with that a certain look
on your face a sort of surprised look or
a look of expectation Spanish guy lost
his lost his car what's his name huh
what do you think you raise your
eyebrows to create that open expression
on your face as if to show that you are
expecting an answer what do you think
you know but the aliens didn't respond
Carlos haaha very funny uh the zelara
taught Jose about their advanced
technology and Interstellar navigation
Interstellar means between stars or
through space uh so they taught him all
about this and he taught them about his
Spanish culture and gave them a Pella
recipe he thought it was a pretty fair
trade a fair trade is good exchange
where two things have equal value or a
pretty good deal for him I I'll give you
a recipe for Pella you tell me all about
Interstellar navigation pretty good deal
fair
trade um he he he was pretty sure he
would never use in interstellar
navigation unless he decided to start an
Intergalactic Uber service Intergalactic
means between galaxies Interstellar
between Stars Intergalactic between
galaxies intergalactic planetary
planetary Intergalactic another
dimension another dimension uh sorry
that's for the Beasty Boys fans out
there
um right despite their differences and
the fact they had basically kidnapped
him Jose found himself growing fond of
his capts if you're fond of something it
means you like it you have warm feelings
towards it I quite like these aliens
okay they're you know they don't seem to
have emotions and they keep probing me
but other you know they're all right
really aren't they he I'm I'm quite fond
of them I'm going to miss them to be
fond of something uh your captors a
captor is someone who's holding someone
captive so kidnappers abductors the
zelara captured hose and then they are
his
captors it seems that Jose has Stockholm
syndrome where kidnapping victims
actually develop a relationship with or
an attachment to their kidnappers so
he's grown fond of his C but should he
really he appreciates their wisdom
wisdom means they have a lot of
knowledge and about the world uh they're
very
wise um they sent him they promised they
they would send him back with his new
knowledge intact if something is intact
it means it's in one piece and it's not
damaged it's in its original state other
examples of intact our house was burned
down but ironically we found the toaster
on the floor
intact another example it's hard to come
out of a scandal with your reputation
intact um my undefeated record as a
boxer is still intact did you know that
about me that I have an undefeated
record as a boxer I've never ever been
defeated or knocked out in a boxing
match to this day and it my boxing
record is intact never been defeated
never been knocked out in a boxing match
I have also never actually had a boxing
match or
indeed any experience of boxing at all
but I do have a 100% undefeated record
which is still intact to this
day um what
else uh Jose was sent back to Earth back
to his garage the sun was Rising now
casting a Golden Glow over the familiar
surroundings your surroundings are the
things which surround you so the place
where you are
in this case it's the streets houses
trees of his local area that's his that
is his
surroundings okay familiar
surroundings
um he the the enhanced clarity so the
the whole experience felt like a dream
but the enhanced clarity of his thoughts
and speech told him otherwise if
something tells you otherwise it means
it shows you uh that things are
different otherwise meaning uh not like
a
dream okay so it felt like a dream but
then my enhanced speech told me
otherwise means uh uh told me that it
was not the case his brain was
positively fizzing with brand new
Advanced English vocabulary fizzing is
like when you open a can of Fizzy Pop
like a a famous Cola
brand like a
Pepsi no one ever mentions Pepsi I'm
going to mention Pepsi
if you open a can of Pepsi why you would
do that I don't know but anyway does
anyone actually drink it how did Pepsi
make any money I don't understand uh and
then you listen to the
can it's fizzing right fizzing if your
brain is fizzing it's full of full of um
uh
activity right why did I sound like Liam
niss it's full of activity
he's very serious isn't he Liam niss in
those films I think if he opened a can
of Pepsi say this Pepsi is full of
activity and you hear it fizzing maybe
that's why his daughter desperately
wanted to go to Europe and get away from
him uh anyway cuz he's so boring anyway
um his his brain was positively fizzing
with brand new Advanced English
vocabulary
so so much Advanced English vocabulary
it was like a a freshly open can of
Pepsi full of English vocabulary which
is no doubt how your brain feels at the
end of listening to this an episode like
this it's just like wow my brain feels
like a freshly opened can of Pepsi if
you got this far into the episode leave
that as a comment you could mention a
popular soft drink um brand and say that
your brain feels exactly like a freshly
opened can of seven up Pepsi or some
other brand that you would like to
advertise for some reason don't
advertise them this this this episode is
not sponsored by Pepsi at all in fact I
would go as far as to say Pepsi is
disgusting isn't it and in fact all of
those soft fizzy drinks they're all
disgusting and horrible have a cup of
tea or or just a glass of water just
drink water this episode is sponsored by
water drink water every day in fact that
reminds me I need to drink some water I
didn't have my normal water break during
the episode here we go
water consumed I've got coffee which I
didn't finish here we
go right let's wrap up this
episode um Jose finally got his working
Visa and indefinite leave to remain
indefinite leave to remain is a status
that you can get from the British
government that means you have the right
to stay in the country permanently it's
called indefinite leave to remain it's
indefinite because it's it there's no
end to it if you apply for residents and
are AC accepted you might be given a
status like this you can find out more
at
www.gov.uk brows vesas
immigration trying to be useful um he
even started his own podcast blah blah
blah blah blah his incredible anecdotes
captivated readers to Captivate people
hold their attention so they can't stop
listening or reading a bit like you
right now with this episode um I've
captivated your
attention uh he never saw the zelara
again but he thought about them
sometimes he cherished his time with the
aliens meaning he held it very
preciously like Gollum with the ring my
precious
Golem hold oh I love it so much he
cherished his time with the aliens like
that was a wonderful time I just had a
fantastic time with the aliens maybe not
like Gollum with the ring cuz that's got
such Sinister overtones but if you just
had a lovely ring that you really liked
you would certainly cherish it oh I love
this ring and I'm never going to give it
to anyone because it was my birthday
present but it's a lovely ring isn't
it um every time Jose made Pella he
couldn't help but chuckle to chuckle is
to laugh a little
bit if you can't help but do something
it means you can't help doing it meaning
you just you always do it and that you
can't stop yourself doing it um you know
I can't help but smile when I think of
the time we spent
together he couldn't help but chuckle
every time he made Pella there he is
making his Pella and he
go oh those those aliens I wonder how
they're doing I wonder if they ever
learned to make Pella and why do they
have to probe me so much I never
explained the word probe it's it's been
a sort of a weird
undercurrent subtext through the story
right I don't know if you noticed that
the fact that the at various times the
aliens did experiments on him and they
probed him to
probe means to send something deep into
something now uh you might send a probe
into space a deep space probe would be a
like a uh a small spaceship that would
go out into space and it would like
send back information to Earth a deep
space probe going out into deep space
sending back
information but uh aliens apparently
according to some uh accounts of alien
abductions the aliens will probe humans
they send they have technology that they
kind of send into their
abductees maybe in the bum I don't know
but uh that's probing sending things
inside the the human body in order to
gather
information I mean they did have to they
did have to give him a new pair of
trousers cuz these other trousers got
damaged
during during one of their experiments
so I don't know how they were probing
him it's probably best not to talk about
it but anyway that's what probing
means yeah it's probably best not to
talk about it I hope I hope I hope uh
Jose is all right and that he you know
if you've ever been abducted by aliens
and you got probed then um I don't know
you there may be a service that you can
contact um if you've been affected by
any of those issues I'm being very glib
and uh Stupid about that
sorry well that is the end of this
ridiculous episode it became quite
ridiculous didn't it um that's all right
bit of fun I hope you enjoyed that story
leave your comments in the comments
section how's your brain right now let
us know in the comments section thank
you for listening to this episode and I
will speak to you next time but for now
it's just time to say goodbye bye bo bo
boy